---
layout: post
categories: project-item
img-path: images/aux3.gif
project-title: Advanced UX
---


<div class="container">
  <div class="description"> 
    <div class="row">


      <div class="container">
        <div class="description"> 
          <div class="row">

            <div class="col-sm-10 col-sm-offset-1">
              <h1 class="title-main-about">Advanced UX</h1>

              <p class="lead">I work in the design studio at <b>Mercedes-Benz R&D North America</b>.  We focus on innovations such as fuelcell, self-driving, 3d graphics, and advanced design.



                <p class="lead"> My focus within the studio covers speech interaction and natural language processing. I can't share with you the actual project I'm working on, so instead I'll highlight the process and problems surrounding my AI project.  </p>


                <h1 class="title-main-about">Designing intelligence</h1>
                <p class="lead">
                Most people I've talked to are not sold on the value of siri, alexa, and similar natural language voice interfaces. Some interfaces may disapoint users by sounding smarter than they really are, but what people really mean to say is that the voice interface isn't smart enough. <p>

                <p class="lead">
                At first, that may seem like an easy problem to grasp. Smart design means putting the user first, meaning.. (1) start with a need (2) design an intuitive layout, (3) provide interactive content, (4) optimize by testing <p>

                <p class="lead">
                Unfortunately, this isn't the case. <b>When designing for intelligence, simple is not better</b>. The goal is to make the interface replicate the thought process of a human - not a puppet you can pinch and drag like clickbait. The point is to avoid explicit visuals and overt commands. I'm really excited about this shift because it's a chance for us ourselves to become smarter and more human. <p>

                
                <h1 class="title-main-about">Natural language processing</h1>
                <p class="lead">
                So how do you replicate the intelligence of a human? In my case, it's through a voice agent. So I've been working on how the agent understands what you're saying as well as how it should talk back. These are the types of problems I've spent my time solving:
                <p>

                
               


                <ul>
                  <li> <p class="lead"> <b> How do you dynamically create and update non-verbal context in voice interaction?</b></li>

                  <li><p class="lead"> <b> Teaching an agent to extract a combination of names, titles, and descriptions referenced in a single utterance</b></li>

                  <li><p class="lead"> <b> Taking an indirect reference made by the user and assigning it to an object with the help of prepositions</b><p> </li>

                    <li><p class="lead"> <b> Sometimes it's still better to show then tell, so how do you anthropomorphize a GUI without being creepy? </b><p> </li> 





                </ul>
                <p>


               <h1 class="title-main-about">Breaking rules</h1>
               <p class="lead">
               On one hand, I had to find (scalable) ways to map out, phrase, and comprimise these linguistical rules into functional statements. On the other hand, users don't always follow all of these grammatical rules to begin with. So generally speaking, my solution was to outline basic linguistic conventions, using them only as guidelines before training with some user input, and finally tidying the loose ends with some duct tape aka if statements.
               <p>

               <p class="lead"> 
               On the UX end, personas were not needed to think like the user. Part of the beauty with language, after all, is that it's universal so we have widely shared conventions of speech. All I had to do was stop thinking and start talking. My first example dialogues solely consisted of me pretending to speak to my mother or a close friend. Although some designers recommend speaking to the agent like you're asking a stranger a question, my goal was to design a smarter agent; one where you could say less but it will understand more - just like your mother. After this initial stage, I broadened my syntax and incrementally made myself harder to understand. At the same time, I started designing and developing the GUI that I eventually hooked up to my voice interface and loaded it onto the car's linux machine.
               <p>

                <h1 class="title-main-about">Takeaways</h1>
                <p class="lead">
                As designers, we're practical problem solvers. For us it's more about the functionality; there's no such thing as a proper way. You can't really "fake" a natural language demo, but there are still more and less practical ways of achieving your goal. What I learned in the process was that the agent/program doesn't have to think the same way a human does in order to present itself like it thinks the same way a human does. Realizing that was a milestone in my jedi journey as a designer that codes (basically coding = the dark side; the evil temptation of solving abstract challanges increases as your powers grow; jedis must restore order by using our problem solving skills to create things people actually care about).
                <p> 


                <h1 class="title-main-about">Related projects</h1>
                <p class="lead">
                Each year some work from our studio is shown publicly at CES. If you want to get a better idea of how intelligent interaction plays into cars, check out these projects my team has worked on in the past. Just to be clear, I was not involved in either of these past projects.
                <p>

                  <h1 class="title-main-about">2015 F 015</h1>
                  
                  <div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
                      <iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GAz42C5Vvt8"></iframe>
                  </div>

                   <h1 class="title-main-about">2016 concept IAA</h1>
                 
                  <div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
                      <iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/fBwmH7TAupI"></iframe>
                  </div>


           
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>